this is the volume control on your phone
pretty standard this is 100% power this
is 50% and this is zero and well this is
a lie tell me if this sounds familiar
you're trying to listen to your guilty
pleasure song so you want a really low
volume you're at zero you press the
button and damn it it's already too loud
if I have a volume control and I put it
at 50% logically it should output 50% of
the sound power of the speaker or the
headphones see the way you perceive
sound is not linear it's logarithmic
yeah those things that you studied in
high school so to build a volume control
that feels linear and smooth to your
ears you need to map the sound power
that the speaker outputs to your linear
control with a specific exponential
curve but if you're listening to
headphones or speakers this changes the
curve so you need a different curve and
this is why some volume controls feel
completely off because dealing with all
of this it's a huge pain in the ass
Apple and Google realize this and now on
IOS and Android they use different
exponential curves to make the volume
feel linear and smooth but you know who
didn't do their homework YouTube if
you're on desktop try to play around
with a volume slider it does basically
nothing from here to here and all the
volume control is in the last 10% behind
the things you do every day with your
Tech that seems so simple and
straightforward there's a secret world
of design engineering psychology tricks
at play with your mind and once you
understand what is actually going on I
promise you you'll never look at your
attack the same way again but let's
start simple because sometimes the
simplest solution is the hardest one to
find this is the Nintendo switch you can
detach the two joycons on the sides and
use them individually as controllers
pretty cool but if you want to play in a
more traditional way you can connect
them to this plastic grip but Nintendo
had a problem see each joycon had led
indicators on the side right here but if
you slide them in the grip then you
cannot see them anymore so how do you
make the battery level of the joycons
show up in the main grip for real I give
you 3 seconds to think about it
[Music]
now many may say oh I'll put some LEDs
on the grip maybe some contacts to
transfer power from the joy-con to the
grip or or we can put a battery in the
grip and then we can connect it with
Bluetooth these are all very modern
high-tech Solutions that's great but
what Nintendo did is the most stupid but
at the same time genius solution they
just used a mirror inside the grip there
are tiny mirrors at a 45° angle and they
reflect light from the LEDs to show up
on the front of the grid that's it the
most low teex solution the most
seemingly stupid one but in the end is
the cheapest one and it just works like
this one this is the ZET space command
TV remote from 1956 and this thing has
no batteries no electronic circuits
nothing because it defies the most
Hightech solution for a simple one under
each button there's a different size rod
and once you press the button hitting
the rod it acts as a tuning fork
creating a high pitch frequency that's
inaudible to humans but that a receiver
and the TV can pick up basically it's as
if each button is a different note on
the guitar just a guitar that you cannot
hear but arguably the most important
mind trick in Tech and one that we've
been using for over a 100 years is the
one that you're looking at right now and
it's how our brains perceive motion on a
screen so if you are on a computer try
to shake your mouse cursor really fast
you'll see that it almost looks like
there are multiple Mouse cursors on the
screen but are there let's slow down
time I swear there were many cursors but
looking at the recording there's just
one see when you start to mix motion on
a screen and our human brains that's
when things get weird this video is in
30 FPS and this ball looks smooth but
watch what happens when I spit it up it
starts to look choppy because it's not
about how many frames per second are on
the screen it's about what is actually
displayed the problem here is that
between these two frames there's too
much difference we can actually solve
this without you throwing your screen in
a trash with some help from unexpected
places Mordor for example let's pause
this SIM from The Lord of the Rings you
can see here that all moving elements
are not frozen in time they all have
motion blur and this gives our brains
the idea of motion so we can apply the
same principle to our animation and
without changing the frame rate oh now
it looks smoother the other place we can
steal from is Bikini
Bottom what is this well this is a smear
frame it's a single frame of Animation
that deforms the subject as it moves and
it's full speed the forming the subject
gives the idea of motion and again we
can use the same principles in our
animation to make it feel smoother and
more fluid Apple actually uses this
principles in the iPhone home screen
when you open an app the animation
stretches the app itself to give the
illusion that the animation is smoother
but not all cool things are hidden like
this inside animation frames because
weirdness intact is everywhere like here
this is a button a button that you look
at probably every single day and just
show it this button costs its company
more than $10 million every year I bet
they're feeling really lucky yes I'm
talking about the Google I'm feeling
lucky button if you're like me you press
that button maybe once or twice in your
life and that's why it's still here see
for this page the homepage of Google
flow
$175 billion a year of AD Revenue so
every single Pixel on this page is
optimized to the extreme to make money
Google even went to the length of
testing 50 different shades of blue to
see which one people clicked on the most
on links but the UN feeling lucky button
is still here and if you click it it
allows you to skip all the ads and go
straight to the website so Google
doesn't make any money in 2007 Google
said that less than 1% of queries pass
through the I'm feeling lucky button so
even if we assume a conservative
0.01% with 2023 Google search revenues
we get a total of
$17.5 million so why do they keep it and
according to Marisa Mayer an X Google
executive it keeps Google a tiny bit
more human I just don't know if that's
worth 17 half million but I'm feeling
lucky is far from the only thing in Tech
that is there for a weird reason the
Solider game on Windows this is the most
beloved app by lazy middle-age office
workers but it's not a chance they added
this specific game to Windows in 1990
see back then the mouse was something
new Believe It or Not people needed to
be taught how to use the mouse so
solitary was purposely designed so that
you needed to drag and drop the cards
using the mouse effectively teaching
people how to use it and if you think
come on who needs the tutorial for a
mouse well this is one of the onboarding
screens for Windows XP in 2001 teaching
you all about the wonderful word of the
mouse and I thought video games tutorial
were annoying and if you're able to go
through the very challenging Mouse
tutorial today you might see this the
windows Spinning Wheel hm this is a cool
animation it's probably a gif or small
looping video that a designer made well
no this this is a font yeah just like
Times New Roman or comic sense it's
called sigue boot Semite and each
character of the font is a single frame
of this animation they did this so this
thing can be ultra optimized and run
with no lag or stuttering on basically
every device imaginable and this also
means that yeah you can now text to your
crush using Windows loading screen font
this ladies and gentlemen is peak level
RIS but the hardest thing about building
Tech is not to find Vis or that crazy
hack or even building something
incredibly complex is dealing with the
most unpredictable counterintuitive and
annoying part of tech us humans and our
fing weird psychology so as this ever
happened to you you're doing something
it has been taking forever and the
progress bar gets stuck at
99% and here it says it's taking 5
minutes and then it becomes 35 and then
40 and then three and this goddamn thing
is never accurate so let's try to fix
that how hard can this be let's just
throw in a spinning wheel and call it a
day well no we're starting now to
receive complaints from people that
think the computer is frozen or it's not
responding and that's because progress
bars are actually important they give us
the information that hey something is
happening things are moving this only
makes you want to rage quit Okay so
let's create a progress bar that counts
the files we have to move and updates
when each file has been moved but then
when we have a giant file and a bunch of
small ones this breaks okay let's count
the total sizing megabytes and then see
where we're at well this also doesn't
work because copying many small files
takes a bit more time than copying one
giant file of the same size oh and now
our users want to know how much time it
takes so let's calculate an estimate but
this assment is also wrong because now
maybe we started another file transfer
so the first one will go slow lower so
let's use a rolling average to get the
less 10 seconds instead and designing a
simple plain progress bar has turned
into a nightmare and to this day there
is no solution to this problem and this
is also why when you see a progress bar
that's too smooth like in these scammy
sites it's paradoxically feels weird and
wrong now it's clear that I love to
discover the secrets the complexity and
the craft behind the tech I use this is
raycast one of my favorite tools and
also the sponsor of this video and this
is their website damn this is cool they
could have gone with a random image like
all websites too but instead they like
you know what let's make an incredibly
cool animation based on our logo and by
the way let's make it interactive so it
changes depending on where you move the
mouse see the design engineering team
behind this tried different ideas for
the homepage of raycast but none of them
were really clicking any normal person
would slap on an image and call it a day
I mean this was already quite cool but
no that wasn't enough so he started
playing around with the logo in the 3D
tools PL and he realized that you can
get some pretty cool results by having
the logo flipped over and have some 3D
bars of glass in between the logo and
the camera and then they built an
interactive playground to tweak every
single parameter about the free
visualization including colors movement
and Distortion individually and after
many trials they nail the version that
you find on the website and people liked
it so much that what was supposed to be
just an image for a website tur into a
super cool wallpaper pack to me this is
amazing this is what makes the
difference between those that just do
things and those that take the time and
effort to really craft something and
this is why I use raycast every single
day so let me show you how I use it rast
is a universal command bar for your
computer I set rast to replace Spotlight
search on my Mac so I can open it with
common space I usually work with
multiple windows so I can just type
where I want my windows to go like left
right or even more complex things like
almost maximize and I can build my
workspace like that I use Spotify for
music so installed the Spotify extension
from the store and now I can search play
and do everything so fast I use
different apps for making visuals like
Photoshop figma Premiere After Effects
and I have a defined set of colors that
I use for my Channel's branding so I Sav
each color on a snipp itting rast so I
can just type and have them available in
every app in two keystrokes and finally
I'm using rast to access all the main AI
models like CLA 3.5 or GPT 40 without
having to jump for different website but
having them all directly inside raycast
super convenient with a pro version you
can access more advanced features like
AI but raycast is completely free to use
try to the link in the description so
they know that I sent you and I'm
putting also 15 discount codes in the
description for the premium version but
now let's get back to the video because
there's much more that hides behind the
tech we use and not just in the software
but in the physical devices as well let
me show you this is a PlayStation 5
pretty familiar but let me ask you this
does it look premium I remember the
first time I saw one in real life before
even touching or playing with it it gave
me the idea of a very cheap product or
look at this monitor does it look
premium or cheap well there's a reason
why even though you probably cannot
articulate it right now and the reason
is this the centerpiece in the PS5 is
made of plastic it's a pretty standard
material used in many products so what's
the problem well the problem is that
this is a very large plastic surface but
with a shiny finish see the main
technique used to mass produce plastic
is called injection molding you pour hot
liquid plastic into a mold to get the
shape you want you dry it so it hardens
and you have your piece but the only
problem is that plastic dries at
different speeds in different parts of
the mold so this creates these
imperfections you can see them as the
light hits the plastic in different ways
if the plastic is matte you don't really
see them but if your piece is large
enough and it has a shiny finish this is
what you get and it makes your product
feel cheap and this is also why in the
renderings the PS5 looked sleek and
futuristic but eventually reality and
Manufacturing products pick in and once
you realize this you start to see it
everywhere so remember how in high
school you learn all that boring
calculus and physics I mean what even is
a derivative well that Bing stuff is
more meaningful than you think and it's
in weird places you don't expect take a
look at V's recognize them this is
Minecraft and this is Toy Story but can
you see it it it's right there no both
Minecraft and Toy Story use the same
piece of seemingly boring math and
without it they wouldn't exist look at
this this is Pixar's first short from
1984 now why does it look fake sure the
3D models are not very detailed lighting
could be a bit better but all the
surfaces look flat they look too perfect
if you take a modern movie like Wall-E
on every surface there's depth
imperfections this is what makes it real
now you cannot add fully random
imperfections those are too random you
want something that looks random but it
still has structure and logical sense
you need organized Randomness and then
there's Notch who was working on a small
inie game called Minecraft and he had a
problem he needs a way to generate
terrain like Hills caves mountains so he
tried to make every block a random
height but you end up with something
like this it doesn't work he needed
organized Randomness see both Toy Story
and Minecraft used the exact same piece
of map called pearling noise a
mathematical function that generates
this thing a random black and white map
it's not random but also not too simple
it's organized Randomness in Minecraft
for example Notch took the lightness of
each pixel in the Pearly noise and
mapped it to the height of each block in
the map to create a random but realistic
terrain Pixar video game studios and
basically anything you see that's made
in 3D uses peing noise in some shape or
form to add texture and Imperfections to
plain surfaces or even to make things
like fire look more random or simulate
water and math is behind more things
than you realize and they don't need to
be as complex as peing noise the golden
ratio the ratio between the numbers in
the Fibonacci sequence is approximately
1.618 and if we take a look for example
at the iCloud icon from Apple oh look
all the circles have relative diameters
that are the Golden Ratio so at this
point of the video you might think wow
creating successful Tech products is so
hard you need to have insane knowledge
of design engineering psychology and
yeah that's true but then why do even
billion dollar companies release
products that fail miserably well
because they didn't follow the most
important and counterintuitive rule in
product management don't listen to users
but watch them as carefully as possible
don't
ever for any reason do anything to
anyone for any reason
ever no matter what take Microsoft Word
people kept asking Microsoft for one
feature after another please I need
Advanced formatting I want proof reading
and Microsoft listen until word became
so bloated complex and full of stuff
that it was a pain to use but companies
like notion or many of these new not
taking organization tools took a
different approach instead of listening
to what user was saying they just
observed them and that's when they saw
that oh 95% % of times people just use
word to take notes write basic to-dos
and manage their daily lives and what
they struggle on is sharing an
organizing them and no user would tell
you this no user would tell you hey I
need a minimalist app with databases and
Cloud sync but just by looking at what
people did and Distilling their real
problems notion is now a$1 billion
company this is how we got some of the
most useful ingenious features ever in
Gmail they observe that people realized
they made a mistake in the first 10
seconds after sending the email so they
added a delay and the ability to undo
the send in the first 60 seconds to save
a painful mistake on iPhone they
observed that people were going back and
forth to paste onetime codes they got
Via SMS while now iOS does this
automatically users suck at innovating
but they are already struggling with the
problems that the next billion dollar
company is going to solve so yeah it all
comes down to who can stock users the
most now let me tell you something that
happened to me yesterday I was replying
to emails from my raving fans when I
noticed something annoying I was trying
to add an attachment but I kept clicking
on this other icon this adds a link to
the email these two actually look kind
of similar from a distance but let's
start with this one the icon for
attaching why is it a paper clip well
here's why what is this this is a floppy
disc although for most people it's the
save icon the safe icon became a thing
when floppy discs were everywhere if you
Ed the computer you knew for sure what a
floppy disc disc was so that's where the
icon comes from and why it's stuck but
today most young people haven't probably
ever seen a floppy disc I barely use
them when I was a kid the icon has
transcended the thing that originated it
and now it's simply the save icon not a
floppy disc icons are amazing see we are
faster at identifying shapes than
reading text so they make us way faster
in understanding what's going on on the
screen until they don't what is this
icon for or this or what about this one
these are all icons for share sharing is
something we do every day but we never
ended up with one truly Universal icon
for it see on average we take 500
milliseconds more to process an
unfamiliar icon than a familiar one so
much so that in some cases they go back
to text instead of the icon take even
this very screen you're on in YouTube
liking something has a universal icon
the thumbs up so there's no label it's
self-explanatory on the other hand
subscribing and especially subscribing
to my channel
doesn't have a familiar and Universal
enough icon and that's why they left it
as text and only once you subscribe you
see the icon for notifications which is
a very familiar and Universal Bell but
there is something else that's going on
that's pretty weird and you probably
noticed it as well today the worse
something is the more we seem to like it
Aesthetics have become messy and weird
we prefer idiotic nonsense memes to
professionally shot ads bad things are
everywhere and as it turns out there is
a very specific reason why and you can
learn all about it in this video right
here I'm enrio and I'll see you in the
next one